3-d Printing

-->3-d files will be in the format .stl.

It has two major steps :
1.Designing:Design of the 3d model
using google sketchup(or default designs are available in the websites which can be customised)
Websites are:
->thingiverse(user name:ShamGanesh Password:rani-12)
->tinkercad
->myminifactory

2.Sketching:It is used to convert the design to the language understandable by the printing machine.
FlashPrint is the software used for converting


Uses:
-->A box or outer look for your finalised object.
-->Gives a good looking and safe product.

Advantages:
-->Economically cheaper.
-->light weight.


Note:Cura is the software to convert our language to 3-d printing machineslanguage.(for any machines)

Flash Print(SlicingSoftware)
It is very easy and user friendly software.
We have 5 options:
1.View-used to view the design(top view or bottom view.....right click and move the mouse to see different views)
2.Move-it is the command used to move the design(text)in the 3d space.
3.Rotate:used to rotate the plane of text(but ensure that the base is on the platform)
4.Scale-This tool is used to give the size of the model(use uniform scaling)
5.Cut-this tool is used to cut any unwanted text or design(delete the design after cutting)

After finishing your design Check whether your design wants any support.(Support is nothing but if you any cuts/space in z axis then use support)

Now give print option:
Resolution:It tells the time and speed of the machine.
Infill:it is the amount of material you are using.
Speed:It is the speed(optimum- Print:60mm/s Travel:80mm/s)
Temperature:210'c is the optimum temperature.

After printing,Send your gcode to the machine through wifi.




Designing Software:
Google Sketch up:
Tools:
1.Push and pull (impotant tool)
For deleting any particular area.
For extending any area.
2.Pencil and eraser:For drawing any design and for erasing.
3.Shapes:To draw any shapes and just enter the dimensions.
4.Offset:to just redraw the shapes upon the drawn shape.
5.Rotate and hand:For changing the view and section of the design.